Source: http://www.cs.virginia.edu/cs201j/lectures/notes17.html

Letter from the Unabomber to David Gelernter, April 1995 
(two years after sending him a bomb)


Dr. Gelernter:

People with advanced degrees aren't as smart as they
think they are. If you'd had any brains you would have
realized that there are a lot of people out there who
resent bitterly the way techno-nerds like you are
changing the world and you wouldn't have been dumb enough
to open an unexpected package from an unknown source.

In the epilog of your book, "Mirror Worlds," you tried to
justify your research by claiming that the developments
you describe are inevitable, and that any college person
can learn enough about computers to compete in a
computer-dominated world. Apparently, people without a
college degree don't count. In any case, being informed
about computers won't enable anyone to prevent invasion
of privacy (through computers), genetic engineering (to
which computers make an important contribution),
environmental degradation through excessive economic
growth (computers make an important contribution to
economic growth) and so forth.

As for the inevitability argument, if the developments
you describe are inevitable, they are not inevitable in
the way that old age and bad weather are inevitable. They
are inevitable only because techno-nerds like you make
them inevitable. If there wereno computer scientists
there would be no progress in computerscience. If you
claim you are justified in pursuing your research because
the developments involved are inevitable, then you may as
well say that theft is inevitable, therefore we shouldn't
blame thieves.

But we do not believe that progress and growth are
inevitable.

We'll have more to say about that later.


-------------------------------------------------------

I couldn't care less what the man's views on technology
are or what message he intended to deliver; the message I
got was that in any society, no matter how rich, just and
free, you can rely on there being a certain number of
evil cowards. I thank him for passing it along, but I
knew that anyway. ... The bright side, so to speak, of
grave injury, discomfort and nearness to death is that
you emerge with a clear fix on what the heart treasures.
Mostly I didn't learn anything new but had the
satisfaction of having my hunches confirmed. I emerged
knowing that, as I had always suspected, the time I spend
with my wife and boys is all that matters in the end.

David Gelernter in Time magazine after Kaczynski's
arrest, April 1996.
